# Monitor Amazon S3

## Overview

Monitoring an **Amazon S3 Bucket** help you to understand and improve the performance of applications that use Amazon S3. By integrating Amazon S3 with SnappyFlow, you can have insights (Average Bucket Size,  Average Number Of Objects, Requests, Bytes Downloaded, etc...) about your S3 bucket. These insights will help you to optimize and use the resources in an efficient way.

## Prerequisites

To collect metrics and logs of Amazon S3, it is necessary to have an IAM Role with a read only access to S3 bucket.

##### Create a Policy to Access Amazon S3

1. Sign in to the AWS Management Console and open the IAM console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/.

2. Follow the below steps to create a policy in the IAM console.

   - Navigate to **Access Management > Policies**

   - In the **Policies** window, click the `Create policy` button

   - In the **Create policy** window, go to the **JSON** tab

   - Copy and paste the below-mentioned **JSON code** into the policy editor

     ```
     {
       "Version": "2012-10-17",
       "Statement": [
         {
           "Action": [
             s3:ListBucket
     	    s3:GetObject
           ],
           "Effect": "Allow",
           "Resource": "*"
         }
       ]
     }
     ```

   - Click the `Next: Tags` > `Next: Review` button

   - In the **Review policy** window, give the **Name** and **Description** (Optional) for the policy and review the list of permissions

   - Click the `Create policy` button

3. Attach the policy to a dedicated IAM Role for read-only access.

## Configuration to collect S3 Logs

### Customize the S3 log input format 

[Click here](/docs/sidebar-snappyflow-saas/Log_management/custom_log_parser) to learn more about Custom Log Parser.

Add the following configuration to the `custom-logging-plugin.yaml` file.

```yaml
s3-logs:
  documentType: s3Logs
  inputs:
  - name: s3
    options:
      Bucket: backupData
      Prefix: sales/
      Files: transaction.log,audit.log,*.txt
      Region: us-west-2
      Exclude_Files: temp.img
      Ignore_older: 1d
      Interval_sec: 300s
      Mem_Buf_Limit: 100m
      Refresh_Object_Listing: 1d
  filters:
  - name: lua
    options:
      script: scripts.lua
      call: addtime_millisecond
  - name: record_modifier
    options:
      record:
        level: "info"
```



#### Parameter Definition

**Bucket** - Bucket consisting files, to be set for monitoring

**Prefix** - Bucket Prefix location for the files to be monitored

**Region** - Region of the bucket

**Files** – Comma separated files to be set for monitoring (Accepts wildcard). Files across multilevel sub-dir. To match prefix /sales-data/year=2020/month=05/day=23/status.txt, /sales-data/*/*/*/*.txt. 

**Exclude_Files** - Files within prefix that needs to be excluded for monitoring. It accepts multilevel sub-dir.

**Ignore_older** - Files to be excluded, whose last modified time falls behind given configuration

**Interval_sec** - Represents the time at which collection of existing files happen

**Mem_Buf_Limit** - Maximum runtime memory to be considered while reading s3 objects. Refer [Unit Sizes - Fluent Bit: Official Manual](https://docs.fluentbit.io/manual/administration/configuring-fluent-bit/unit-sizes) to know more about unit specification

**Refresh_Object_Listing** - Represents the time at which , new wildcard represented files to be looked for.

:::note

**Ignore_older** and **Refresh_Object_Listing** supports `(m, h,d)` syntax.

m - Month

h- Hours

d- Days

:::

## Enable S3 bucket Logs

To start collecting logs from S3 bucket add the following configuration to the `config.yaml` file.

```yaml
logging:
  plugins:
  - name: s3-logs
    enabled: true
```



## View S3 Metrics and Logs

Follow the below steps to view the metrics and logs collected from Amazon S3 bucket.

1. Go to the **Application** tab in SnappyFlow and navigate to your **Project** > **Application** > **Dashboard**.

2. You can view the database metrics in the **Metrics** section and logs in the **Log Management** section.

   :::note

   Once plugins are added to sfPoller, they will be automatically detected within the Metrics section. However, if the plugins are not detected, you can import templates to view the corresponding metrics.

   :::

3. To access the unprocessed data gathered from the plugins, navigate to the **Browse data** section and choose the `Index: Metric`, `Instance: Endpoint`, `Plugin,` and `Document Type`.



